Add missing documentation for sln, buildprops, and buildtargets item templates (#48191)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/tools/dotnet-new-sdk-templates.md

description: The information about dotnet new templates shipped with dotnet SDK.
ms.custom: updateeachrelease
no-loc: [Blazor, WebAssembly]

> ms.date: 08/29/2024

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ms.date: 08/29/2025
```

---

> # .NET default templates for dotnet new

Reviewer: I know it's unrelated to the changes, but seems like the title could just be:

```suggestion
# Default templates for `dotnet new`
```

Reviewer: And then the TOC entry at https://github.com/dotnet/docs/blob/6b7617aeedf2d29c193f0033e0e68f8883111a7b/docs/navigate/tools-diagnostics/toc.yml#L139 should also be updated to just "Default templates".

In case the template supports multiple languages, this command will show help for the template in the default language. By combining it with the `--language` option, you can see the help for other languages: `dotnet new console --help --language F#`.

> The templates that ship with the .NET SDK have the following additional options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The templates that ship with the .NET SDK have additional options that are described in the following sections.
```

> ## `buildprops`

Reviewer: Since all of these sections are really about the options for each template, I feel like each template heading should be an H3, not an H2, to make them subheadings of `## Template options`.

Reviewer: I'll address it in a separate PR and you can see what you think.

Creates a *Directory.Build.props* file for customizing MSBuild properties for an entire folder tree. For more information, see [Customize your build](/visualstudio/msbuild/customize-your-build).

- **`--inherit`**

  If specified, adds an Import element for the closest *Directory.Build.props* file in the parent directory hierarchy. By default, *Directory.Build.props* files don't inherit from parent directories, so enabling this option allows you to build up a hierarchy of customizations folder-by-folder.

- **`--use-artifacts`**

>   If specified, adds a property to enable the artifacts output layout. This is a common pattern for projects that produce build artifacts, such as NuGet packages, that are placed in a common folder structure.

Reviewer 2: @copilot reference the artifacts-output.md docs so users have a breadcrumb to learn more about the artifacts layout

  The roll-forward policy to use when selecting an SDK version, either as a fallback when a specific SDK version is missing or as a directive to use a later version.
  For more information, see [global-json](global-json.md#rollforward).

## `sln`

Creates an empty solution file containing no projects.

> [!NOTE]

> > In .NET SDK 9.0.200 and later, this template supports a `--format` option to choose between `sln` and `slnx` formats. Starting with .NET 10, the default format will be `slnx`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> In .NET SDK 9.0.200 and later, this template supports a `--format` option to choose between `sln` and `slnx` formats. Starting with .NET 10, the default format is `slnx`.
```
